ENGF00 34 Scenario 2 
 
Introduction  
Computers have the potential to improve people’s lives, whether through automation, complicated 
calculation, or  interaction and  entertainment. Your task for this scenario is to implement a computer 
system or tool that makes use of the skills, knowledge, or concepts you have learned in your first year 
and wh ich relates to the theme chosen this year . In groups of 4, you will  create  and demo  a lightweight 
prototype of the system  you proposed in Scenario 1* , as well as submit an individual reflection  on the 
project and how it went.  
* You are not required to use the proposal you gave in Scenario 1. If you would like to make changes or 
go with a different idea, that is fine.  Your idea must still obey the requirements of Scenario 1, though 
(related to the chose n theme, and no large AI models).  
Scenario deliverables  
There will be three  deliverable s in this scenario: (1) a  URL to a  5-10 minute  video demo  of your system  
(group submission ), (2) a zip of your code/design files (group submission), and (3) a 2-4 page reflection 
on the process of designing and implementing  your project and what you contributed to it (individual 
submission) . You will receive  a group mark for the presentation and an individual mark for your 
reflection.  These will be average d together to get your overall Scenario 2 mark.  
Project  and codebase  
The duration of the project is short, so some projects may simply be a prototype or mockup of the 
proposed system with some functionality  limited or working only on hardcoded  data.  It is recommended 
that you start out with some kind of prototype and then fill out functionality  as you have the time for it . 
Functionality should be prioritized so that the idea of your project can be conveyed even if the 
implementation is not finished.  
We will inspect your code but not run it. Therefore, please focus on submitting files that you created for 
this project rather than dependencies and libraries/components that others wrote.  
Demo  video  
In your demo, you should briefly describe the project your group decided to implement , demonstrate 
your system working , and briefly summarize how it was implemented . Part of the marking criteria for 
this coursework is creativity, so it is recommended that your video demonstrates creativity, either in 
terms of the idea behind the project and its features or in terms of problem -solving . Ideally, all members 
of your group should have the chance to speak.  Videos  can be uploaded to UCL Mediacentral or to 
Youtube . The URL is then submitted  on Moodle.  
One option for recording video is to have a group Teams or Zoom call attended by all members which is 
then recorded.  Screensharing can be used as needed  to demonstrate your project.  Another option is to 
record individually and use video editing to combine clips as needed.  
Reflection contents  
In your reflection, you should describe the approach that you/your group had in terms of brainstorming, 
prototyping, and implementing your project.  It should also go into detail on some part of the project 
that you worked on.  If there were shortcomings , planned functionality that wasn’t completed by the 
end, unexpected difficulties, etc. explain those and describe what further work you intended/is needed 
to complete the project . Please also reflect on your contributions to the project , and what you 
personal ly learned from the project.  
This reflection will be used to evaluate your individual contribution and knowledge of the project.  Please 
include your group number  and name  in the filename of your submission, as this helps me when 
downloading submissions.  
Generative AI policy  
Gen AI tools can be used to assist your coding/implementation and to check your writing. However, the 
writing of your individual reflection must be your own work. In addition, if you use generative AI to 
assist with your implementation , please make a brief note , either as a comment in your code files, in 
your presentation, in your individual reflection, etc.  summarizing where and how it was used.  
Marking  
The mark for the second scenario is worth 20% of the ENGF0 034 mark, or half of the 40% allocated to 
the Scenarios.  You will receive a group mark for the presentation/code and an individual mark for your 
reflection, which will be averaged together with equal (50/50) weight to get a final mark.  
Marking criteria for group submission:  
The main criteria for marking  the group submission  are: 
1. Achievement : The tool is usable and useful to users. Project is ambitious with h igh level of 
achievement.  
2. Creativity : Tool is creative and interesting. Problems and time constraints creatively worked 
around.  
3. Speaking / oral presentation skills : Demo of project is clear and well -explained. Presentation is 
concise and makes good use of time.  Presentation is organized and has clear structure.  
1st 
Distinction  
Exceptional / 
Outstanding  
80-100%  • Exceptional level of accomplishment, going over and beyond to deliver a 
high -quality experience to users.  
• Tool is highly unique with creative features implemented.  
• Flawless and polished presentation, exceptional quality of demonstration.  
1st 
Distinction  
Excellent  
70-79%  • A high -quality tool that makes ambitious goals and meets them.  
• Creativity clearly demonstrated in design of tool and techniques used to 
accomplish the work.  
• Very high quality of delivery. Use of presentation medium with 
professional style.  
2:1 
Merit  
Good  
60-69%  • A good solution to the task set that makes significant accomplishments.  
• Response to the task set demonstrates some thoughtfulness and 
ingenuity or attempt at creativity.  
• Overall good presentation  or demo , persuasive and compelling.  
2:2 
Pass  
Satisfactory  
50-59%  • Reasonable solution, with s everal shortcomings in execution.  
• No attempt at creativity but standard programming techniques were 
applied to a tool that (partially or wholly) fulfills the task set.  
• Able to communicate, present and/or demonstrate solution and 
summarise work in appropriate format.  
3rd 
Weak  
40-49%  • Rudimentary response to the task set, significantly incomplete.  
• No originality in approach, and difficulty executing standard 
techniques/solutions.  
• Ineffective oral presentation or demo of the solution.  
Fail 
< 40%  • No solution to the given problem, completely incorrect code for the given 
task.  
• Poorly done presentation or demonstration, very low quality.  
 
Marking criteria for individual reflection:  
The main criteria for marking individual reflections are : 
1. Demonstrating thought about the project and the development process . 
2. Demonstrating familiarity with the project and contribution to it.  
1st 
Distinction  
Exceptional / 
Outstanding  
80-100%  • Exceptional response demonstrating thought and nuance about the 
project  and various considerations related to design/implementation . 
• Demonstration of deep familiarity with and high -quality contributions to 
the project. Demonstration of exceptional support of and cooperation 
with team members.  
1st 
Distinction  
Excellent  
70-79%  • A distinctive response that develops a clear a ccount of the project and 
design/implementation decisions , with evidence of nuance.  
• Demonstration of deep familiarity with the parts of the project that were 
personally worked on. Demonstration of high -quality contributions to the 
project.  
2:1 
Merit  
Good  
60-69%  • A sound response with a reasonable account of the project and 
design/implementation decisions . 
• Demonstration of familiarity with some part of the project and 
demonstration of significant contribution s to the project.  
2:2 
Pass  
Satisfactory  
50-59%  • A basic account of the project with some understanding/explanation of 
design/implementation decisions.  
• Basic familiarity of the project with some evidence of contribution . 
3rd 
Weak  
40-49%  • Basic understanding of the project with  minimal  
understanding/explanation of design/implementation decisions . 
• Basic familiarity of the project with weak evidence of contribution . 
Fail 
< 40%  • No understanding of project or involvement with decisions 
demonstrated . 
• No evidence of contribution . 
 